Reference for stage-3 arraybuffer-base64 (#36387)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/javascript/reference/global_objects/uint8array/frombase64/index.md

## Syntax

```js-nolint
Uint8Array.fromBase64(string)
Uint8Array.fromBase64(string, options)
```

### Parameters

- `string`
  - : A base64-encoded string to convert to a `Uint8Array`. The string must only contain characters in the base64 alphabet, which includes A–Z, a–z, 0–9, and two special characters, which are either `+` and `/` (if using `alphabet: "base64"` in `options`) or `-` and `_` (if using `alphabet: "base64url"` in `options`). Any ASCII white space characters within the string are ignored.
- `options` {{optional_inline}}
  - : An object customizing the base64 string interpretation process. It can contain the following properties:
    - `alphabet` {{optional_inline}}
      - : A string specifying the base64 alphabet to use. It can be one of the following:

>         - `"base64"` (default)
>           - : Accept `+` and `/` as `0x3E` and `0x3F`, respectively.
>         - `"base64url"`
>           - : Accept `-` and `_` as `0x3E` and `0x3F`, respectively.

Reviewer: I think (weakly) that having `3E` and `3F` could confuse readers: these represent only six bits, not a full byte. Maybe:

```suggestion
        - `"base64"` (default)
          - Accept input encoded with the standard `base64` alphabet, which uses `+` and `/`.
        - `"base64url"`
          - : Accept input encoded with the `base64url` alphabet, which uses `-` and `_`.
```

    - `lastChunkHandling` {{optional_inline}}
      - : A string specifying how to handle the last chunk of the base64 string. Because every 4 characters in base64 encodes 3 bytes, the string is separated into chunks of 4 characters. If the last chunk has fewer than 4 characters, it needs to be handled differently. It can be one of the following:
        - `"loose"` (default)
          - : The last chunk can either be 2 or 3 base64 characters, or exactly 4 characters long with padding `=` characters. The last chunk is decoded and appended to the result.
        - `"strict"`
          - : The last chunk must be exactly 4 characters long with padding `=` characters. Furthermore, [overflow bits](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Base64#last_chunk) (trailing bits from the base64 characters that don't represent any data) must be 0. The last chunk is decoded and appended to the result.
        - `"stop-before-partial"`

>           - : If the last chunk is exactly 4 characters long with padding `=` characters, then it's decoded and appended to the result. Otherwise, the last partial chunk is ignored (but if it contains one base64 character followed by `=`, then a syntax error is still thrown). This is useful if the string is coming from a stream and the last chunk is not yet complete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          - : If the last chunk is exactly 4 characters long with padding `=` characters, then it's decoded and appended to the result. Otherwise, the last partial chunk is ignored (but if it contains one base64 character followed by `=`, then a syntax error is still thrown). This is useful if the string is coming from a stream and the last chunk is not yet complete. To know how many characters of the input were read, use {{jsxref("Uint8Array.prototype.setFromBase64()")}} instead. 
```

### Return value

A new `Uint8Array` object containing the decoded bytes from the base64-encoded string.

### Exceptions

- {{jsxref("SyntaxError")}}
  - : Thrown if the input string contains characters outside the specified alphabet, or if the last chunk does not satisfy the `lastChunkHandling` option.
- {{jsxref("TypeError")}}
  - : Thrown in one of the following cases:
    - The input string is not a string.
    - The `options` object is not an object or `undefined`.
    - The options are not of the expected values or `undefined`.

## Examples

### Decoding a base64 string

This example uses the default `alphabet` and `lastChunkHandling` options to decode a base64 string. Note that:

- The string has 10 base64 characters, not a multiple of 4.
- The whitespace in the space is ignored.
- The last chunk, `ld`, ends in the character `d` which is `0b011101` in base64, so the `1101` bits are "overflow bits" and are ignored.

```js

> const uint8Array = Uint8Array.fromBase64("Hello World");

Reviewer: `"Hello World"` is a valid base64 string, but I think it's likely to be confusing for readers to have something human-readable here, because inputs to `fromBase64` are not normally human-readable. Can I suggest instead `SGVsbG8g V29ybGQ`?

console.log(uint8Array); // Uint8Array(7) [29, 233, 101, 161, 106, 43, 149]
```

### Decoding a URL-safe base64 string

This example uses the `alphabet` option to decode a URL-safe base64 string.

```js

> const uint8Array = Uint8Array.fromBase64("Hello-World", {

Reviewer: Ditto above comment about human-readable input. Maybe `'PGI-anM_PC9iPg'`? (Which decodes to the UTF8 encoding of `'<b>js?</b>'`.)

```

### Decoding a base64 string with strict last chunk handling

This example uses the `lastChunkHandling` option to decode a base64 string, where the last chunk must be exactly 4 characters long with padding `=` characters, and the overflow bits must be 0.

```js
const array1 = Uint8Array.fromBase64("VQ==", { lastChunkHandling: "strict" });
console.log(array1); // Uint8Array(1) [85]

const array2 = Uint8Array.fromBase64("VR==", { lastChunkHandling: "strict" });
// Throws a SyntaxError because R is 0b010001, where the last 4 bits are not 0

const array3 = Uint8Array.fromBase64("VQ", { lastChunkHandling: "strict" });
// Throws a SyntaxError because the last chunk is not exactly 4 characters long
```

### Decoding a base64 string with partial last chunk handling

This example uses the `lastChunkHandling` option to decode a base64 string, ignoring any partial last chunk.

```js
// The last chunk is complete
const array1 = Uint8Array.fromBase64("VQ==", {
  lastChunkHandling: "stop-before-partial",
});
console.log(array1); // Uint8Array(1) [85]

// The last chunk is partial
const array2 = Uint8Array.fromBase64("VQ", {
  lastChunkHandling: "stop-before-partial",
});

> console.log(array2); // Uint8Array(0) []

Reviewer: I think these examples would be better with a full chunk before the partial chunk, so you can see that _some_ of the input was decoded.

---
title: Uint8Array.fromBase64()
slug: Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array/fromBase64
page-type: javascript-static-method
browser-compat: javascript.builtins.Uint8Array.fromBase64
---

{{JSRef}}

The **`Uint8Array.fromBase64()`** static method creates a new {{jsxref("Uint8Array")}} object from a [base64](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Base64)-encoded string.

> For the general concepts around base64 strings, see the [base64](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Base64) glossary entry. This method should be preferred over {{domxref("Window.atob()")}} because it results in a byte array, which is easier to work with than a string containing raw bytes. If you already have an array buffer allocated and you want to populate it, use the instance method {{jsxref("Uint8Array.prototype.setFromBase64()")}} instead.

Reviewer 2: See https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/36387/files#r1827093729

## Syntax

```js-nolint
Uint8Array.fromBase64(string)
Uint8Array.fromBase64(string, options)
```

### Parameters

- `string`

>   - : A base64-encoded string to convert to a `Uint8Array`. The string must only contain characters in the base64 alphabet, which includes A–Z, a–z, 0–9, and two special characters, which are either `+` and `/` (if using `alphabet: "base64"` in `options`) or `-` and `_` (if using `alphabet: "base64url"` in `options`). Any ASCII white space characters within the string are ignored.

Reviewer 2: Can't you have the padding character? `=`
